CS331 - Group 7
Faraz Merchant, Nona Harris, Angel Cazares
Business Requirements:
BRANCH:
● The bank is organized into branches.
● Each branch is in a particular city with an address and is identified by a unique branch-ID
and a name.
● The bank monitors the assets of each branch.
● Each branch of the bank has a manager and an assistant manager who are employees of
the bank.
Assumptions:
● The branch manages a number of assets; it is a multivalued attribute that will be
organized in an asset relation with the asset name serving as a partial key.
CUSTOMER:
● Bank customers are uniquely identified by their social security numbers.
● The bank stores each customer’s name and address (apartment number, street number,
state, city, and zip code).
● Customers may have several accounts and can take out loans that are managed as
accounts as well.
● A customer may be associated with a particular branch and has a personal banker who
works with the customer on their loan and bank transactions.
Assumptions:
● The customer has total participation in the BANKER relationship with their primary
banker: every customer associated with the bank must have a personal banker.
● Each customer is optionally associated with a single branch.
EMPLOYEE:
● Bank employees are also identified by their social security numbers.
● The bank stores the name and telephone numbers of each employee and the names of the
employee’s dependents.
● The bank also keeps track of the employee’s start date and, thus, length of employment.
● An employee at the bank works for one of the branches and reports to the manager of that
branch.
● The employee may have a manager and the manager is in charge of a certain number of
employees.
Assumptions:
● The employee may have a number of dependents (it is a multivalued attribute) and this
will be managed as a separate relation with the employeeSSN and dependent name
serving as partial keys.
● Employees do not have to participate in a SUPERVISION relationship with a managing
employee (as they may be the manager). However, employees can only have one
manager.
● The participation of employees in WORKS_FOR is total, as every employee must work
for a branch to be an employee.
● Length of employment is a derived attribute from their start date.
● For a more robust design, we included the attributes sex, salary, address, and date of
birth.
● In addition to the dependent names, we will also keep track of each dependent's birthday
and sex.
ACCOUNT:
● The bank offers several types of accounts; savings, checking, money market, and loan
accounts.
● An account can be held by more than one customer, and a customer can have more than
one account.
● Each account is assigned a unique account number.
● The bank maintains a record of each account balance and the most recent date on which
the account was accessed by each customer holding the account.
● In addition, saving and loan accounts have fixed interest rates, money market accounts
have variable interest rates regularly updated based on the stock market
● Overdrafts are recorded for each checking account.
Assumptions:
● The participation of accounts in MANAGES is total, because an account cannot exist
without having an owner.
● Each account type (checkings, savings, money market, loan account) is a subclass of
account with disjoint participation. Each account entity must belong to one of the
subclasses (the subclasses are total).
● Account overdrafts are a multivalued attribute that will be a separate relation, with the
overdraft amount and accountID serving as partial keys.
LOAN:
● A loan originates at a particular branch and can be held by one or more customers.
● A loan is identified by a unique loan number (similar to an account number)
● For each loan, the bank keeps track of the loan amount and the loan monthly repayment
amount.
● The bank keeps track of all the transactions. A transaction is identified by a unique code
and has a type of name. For example, “WD” is the code for withdrawal, and “CD” is for
customer deposit.
Assumptions:
● The participation of a loan in TAKES_OUT is total, because a loan cannot exist without
having an owner.
● The LOAN has total participation in a HOLDS relationship with Loan Account because
every loan must belong to a loan account.
TRANSACTION:
● When a customer makes a transaction, the transaction record should identify the
transaction code, the date, the hour, the amount, and the account.
● Some transactions are free but the bank charges for most of them. If a customer makes a
chargeable transaction,the charge is also registered as a chargeless transaction.
Assumptions:
● Transaction has total participation in the MAKES relationship with the ACCOUNT entity
because every transaction must have an account associated with it.
